t, which served me like a cellar to my house.

It cost me much labour and many days before all these things were
brought to perfection; and therefore I must go back to some other
things which took up some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened,
after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making the
cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden
flash of lightning happened, and after that a great clap of thunder, as
is naturally the effect of it. I was not so much surprised with the
lightning as I was with the thought which darted into my mind as swift
as the lightning itselfâ€”Oh, my powder! My very heart sank within me
when I thought that, at one blast, all my powder might be destroyed; on
which, not my defence only, but the providing my food, as I thought,
entirely depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder took fire, I should never have known who had
hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm was over I
laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and applied myself
to make bags and boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in the hope that, whatever might come, it
might not all take fire at once; and to keep it so apart that it should
not be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this work in
about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which in all was about two
hundred and forty pou