 ladder, when I was in, I lifted
over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I
thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it appeared
afterwards, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that
I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
the account above; and I made a large tent, which to preserve me from
the rains that in one part of the year are very violent there, I made
doubleâ€”one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it; and
covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among
the sails.

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought on
shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and belonged
to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that would
spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the
entrance, which till now I had left open, and so passed and repassed,
as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my tent,
I laid them up within my fence, in the nature of a terrace, so that it
raised the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a
cave, just behind my ten