nds weight, was divided in not less than a hundred
parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any
danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave, which, in my fancy, I
called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the
rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I
laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out once at least
every day with my gun, as well to divert myself as to see if I could
kill anything fit for food; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself
with what the island produced. The first time I went out, I presently
discovered that there were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this misfortune to
meâ€”viz. that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at them; but I was
not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then shoot
one, as it soon happened; for after I had found their haunts a little,
I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they saw me in the
valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run away, as in a
terrible fright; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded
that, by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward that they did not readily see objects that were above them; so
afterwards I took this