igious deal of time and labour which it took me up to make
a plank or board: but my time or labour was little worth, and so it was
as well employed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above, in the
first place; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that I
brought on my raft from the ship. But when I had wrought out some
boards as above, I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a
half, one over another all along one side of my cave, to lay all my
tools, nails and ironwork on; and, in a word, to separate everything at
large into their places, that I might come easily at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that
would hang up; so that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a
general magazine of all necessary things; and had everything so ready
at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in
such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so
great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day’s
employment; for, indeed, at first I was in too much hurry, and not only
hurry as to labour, but in too much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would have been full of many dull things; for example, I must
have said thus: “30_th_.—After I had got to shore, and escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliverance, having
first vomited, with the great quantity of salt water which had got int