t would have been my
case, if I had been forced to have lived in the condition in which I at
first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or necessaries to
supply and procure them? “Particularly,” said I, aloud (though to
myself), “what should I have done without a gun, without ammunition,
without any tools to make anything, or to work with, without clothes,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?” and that now I had all
these to sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself
in such a manner as to live without my gun, when my ammunition was
spent: so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want,
as long as I lived; for I considered from the beginning how I would
provide for the accidents that might happen, and for the time that was
to come, even not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even
after my health and strength should decay.

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being
destroyed at one blast—I mean my powder being blown up by lightning;
and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened
and thundered, as I observed just now.

And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of
silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before,
I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It
was by my account the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above
said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; when t