ghts of the method how to do this, and
what kind of dwelling to makeâ€”whether I should make me a cave in the
earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both;
the manner and description of which, it may not be improper to give an
account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not fit for my settlement, because
it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea, and I believed it
would not be wholesome, and more particularly because there was no
fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a more healthy and more
convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would be
proper for me: 1st, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned;
2ndly, shelter from the heat of the sun; 3rdly, security from ravenous
creatures, whether man or beast; 4thly, a view to the sea, that if God
sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my
deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish all my expectation
yet.

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the top.
On the one side of the rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way
in, like the entrance or door of a cave but there was not really any
cave or way into the rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved to
pitch my tent. This plain was not above 