eat reason to consider it as a determination of
Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I
should end my life. The tears would run plentifully down my face when I
made these reflections; and sometimes I would expostulate with myself
why Providence should thus completely ruin His creatures, and render
them so absolutely miserable; so without help, abandoned, so entirely
depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a
life.

But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts,
and to reprove me; and particularly one day, walking with my gun in my
hand by the seaside, I was very pensive upon the subject of my present
condition, when reason, as it were, expostulated with me the other way,
thus: “Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but, pray
remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you come, eleven of you in
the boat? Where are the ten? Why were they not saved, and you lost? Why
were you singled out? Is it better to be here or there?” And then I
pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the good that
is in them, and with what worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my
subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had not happened
(which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship floated from the
place where she first struck, and was driven so near to the shore that
I had time to get all these things out of her; wha