 were a long time in cutting and preparing in the
woods, and more, by far, in bringing home; so that I spent sometimes
two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a third
day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron
crows; which, however, though I found it, made driving those posts or
piles very laborious and tedious work.


But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I
had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did, more or
less, every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstances I
was reduced to; and I drew up the state of my affairs in writing, not
so much to leave them to any that were to come after me—for I was
likely to have but few heirs—as to deliver my thoughts from daily
poring over them, and afflicting my mind; and as my reason began now to
master my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could,
and to set the good against the evil, that I might have something to
distinguish my case from worse; and I stated very impartially, like
debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I
suffered, thus:—


_Evil_.


_Good_.


I am cast upon a horrible, desolate island, void of all hope of
recovery.

