 in my cargo
from England, and which I had packed up among my things; some
Portuguese books also; and among them two or three Popish prayer-books,
and several other books, all which I carefully secured. And I must not
forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent
history I may have occasion to say something in its place; for I
carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the
ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore
with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years; I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he could
make up to me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not
do. As I observed before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded
them to the utmost; and I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept
things very exact, but after that was gone I could not, for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things notwithstanding all
that I had amassed together; and of these, ink was one; as also a
spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles, pins,
and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that without much
difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it was near
a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale, or
surrounded my habitation. The piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as
I could well lift,