ale or fortification. This gave me not only egress
and regress, as it was a back way to my tent and to my storehouse, but
gave me room to store my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I
found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I
could not write or eat, or do several things, with so much pleasure
without a table: so I went to work. And here I must needs observe, that
as reason is the substance and origin of the mathematics, so by stating
and squaring everything by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may be, in time, master of every mechanic
art. I had never handled a tool in my life; and yet, in time, by
labour, application, and contrivance, I found at last that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had had tools.
However, I made abundance of things, even without tools; and some with
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made
that way before, and that with infinite labour. For example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an
edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, till I
brought it to be thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze.
It is true, by this method I could make but one board out of a whole
tree; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I had
for the prod